Well, good morning, Menlo Church, and welcome back.
Today, we are finishing our series called Perfect, talking about kids.
And if you've ever spent any time with a toddler, maybe you have one, you have experienced something that I call kid logic.
I have four kids.
I've experienced kid logic for a long time.
And it's the ability to be 100% confident
and 100% wrong at the same time, and you're like, I thought this was about kids, not a marriage sermon, Phil, that's weird.
My favorite example, that one took a minute.
I like heard a couple of you getting, you laugh, it's okay.
My favorite example of this is kind of the ostrich strategy that we see with really little kids that are still learning object permanence.
And when they're playing peekaboo with you, they kind of, you know, they put their hands over their face and they say peekaboo.
And in that moment, in their mind, they've been teleported to a different place and you have ceased to exist.
The moment they pull their hands away, they've teleported back and they look at you and I get it.
Like the logic is airtight.
If I can't see you, you can't see me.
And they believe that their lack of vision means that you are invisible, that you literally disappear.
Now, we laugh at little moments like this with kids because they're cute and sweet and fun, but I honestly think that a lot of us live our spiritual lives with a similar kind of logic.
We think that if we ignore God that he won't see us, that he won't bother us, that he won't interfere, we think that if we hide our sin, if we hide our shame, if we hide our failures, that God won't know about them.
But just like with a child, we don't see the whole picture.
Now don't get me wrong, we do see a lot.
Actually, that's kind of part of the problem.
We basically live in a moment with unlimited information.
If you aren't careful, like we're in a spot right now where we can assume we're actually all knowing.
If you remember, that was kind of the first temptation of mankind.
We think we're like God because we actually have the whole world in our pocket or in our hand at any given time.
But God has something that we don't, which is unlimited wisdom too.
And so before we dive into the message this week, talking about kids, I want to pray for us.
And I know that God's been working on us as individuals, families, marriages, parents over these last few weeks at all of our campuses in San Mateo, Mountain View, Saratoga, Menlo Park, people joining us online.
And then on top of that, you're scrolling through and watching tragedies take place around the world and in cities across the country and people with very different policy positions and very different politics.
I think all
are screaming out.
Can we just see justice come forward?
Can we just see the violence end?
And so wherever you are, however you're joining us today, I'm gonna pray for us.
And I'm gonna ask that God would meet us right here, that God would show up through His people to bring hope into a world that needs it.
Would you pray with me?
God, thank you so much.
Thank you that prayer for us is not a last resort.
It is not a flippant excuse to do nothing.
It is the first place we go.
It is the opportunity to not only change our hearts and change our perspective, but to change a broken and dying world.
And so we pray for marriages to be restored.
We pray for families to be put back together, God.
We feel the way and the challenge, even in the message we're about to bring.
And we pray for a world, a world where violence, God, we pray that peace would reign and rule, that your kingdom would come in Minneapolis.
Your kingdom would come in Iran as it is in heaven.
We pray that
the hope of heaven would invade the hurts of this world in a way that is unmistakably you.
Would you help that be true?
Not just out there, but in here right now with me too, in Jesus' name.
Amen.
We live in a pretty unique moment in history.
Information is basically everywhere.
It can feel kind of unlimited.
You probably have a phone in your pocket right now, right?
And right now we find ourselves kind of drowning in data.
But while information is everywhere, knowledge, what is actually truthful information, it requires curation.
You can't just take information.
You have to narrow it down.
You have to sift through the noise to find what's actually true.
The Apostle Paul wrote to a young student, a young mentee and protege in the first century named Timothy, and he flagged the same concern even back then when he said this.
He said, have nothing to do with irreverent, silly myths.
And you're like, I didn't think they had social media back then.
Rather, train yourself for godliness.
For while bodily training is of some value, godliness is of value in every way as it holds promise for the present life and also the life to come.
And honestly, like if we just use that as a mirror right now, we are not doing a great job of sifting through what's true and what's a lie.
We laugh at how young kids process and think and we think that's a cute game or that's a cute idea that you think it works that way.
Kids are so gullible, that's adorable.
But look at us, right?
We live in an era of hyperspeed gullibility.
We see a headline that confirms what we already want to believe, usually something that makes us angry at those people.
And we believe it instantly.
We don't check the source.
We don't look for context.
We don't ask if it's true.
We just ask if it makes us feel righteous.
And honestly, if it makes us feel mad, we hit share and we click forward.
I've had some folks do that to me this week.
We have confused outrage with insight.
We think, like, I'm angry, therefore I must be right.
And that isn't wisdom.
That's just childish.
And it's childish at any age.
That's kid logic with AI and a smartphone, and we should know better.
See, we think that we are doing our research when in reality we are just letting an algorithm feed us comfort food for our biases.
And here's the hardest part.
Wisdom has never been more scarce.
Why is wisdom so rare in the information age?
Well, it's because you can't download it.
It's not transactional.
It's not immediately available through a device in your hand.
You can't ask a chatbot for wisdom.
Wisdom requires human relationships.
You only get wisdom by walking slowly with someone who has lived longer, seen more, and failed more than you have.
A life that has learned to discern produces wisdom.
And those are the lives we need to get close to if we want some for ourselves.
You get wisdom by proximity.
But the problem is we live in a culture that has incentivized us and manipulated us to avoid proximity.
Think about it.
We order food on screens to avoid talking to people.
We text instead of calling to avoid the awkward silences.
We curate our feeds to avoid people with whom we disagree, not even to not talk to them, but just to be exposed to what they think.
We are designing relationship out of our lives as a culture, and in doing so, we are starving ourselves of wisdom.
Now, this is why the Bible talks so much about honor, and over the course of this series, we've talked about honoring your parents, and I've mentioned I know how complicated that is for some of us, myself included.
But the spiritual principle of honor is actually less about somebody else.
It's more about what God's doing in me.
It's less about just being polite.
It's actually about access.
When you honor the generation that came before you or when you honor your spiritual fathers and mothers, you are granting yourself access to their wisdom.
You are admitting that you do not have it all figured out.
This brings us to really the core message of today.
We spent weeks talking about the fact that there is family kind of broadly or spouses.
The last week we talked about parents.
And each week, I've tried to highlight the fact that even if you aren't married, even if you don't have kids, this content really can help you.
But if you wanted to, over the course of the last couple of weeks, if you didn't have kids and if you weren't married, you were kind of like, I guess I'm off the hook.
Must be hard for all of you, right?
But that's not what we're gonna experience this week.
Nobody's getting a pass this week.
You might not be a parent, you might not be married, but every single person listening to my voice is a child.
You are a son.
You are a daughter.
And God has very specific instructions for his children.
In Ephesians, the Apostle Paul points out something important from the 10 commandments written thousands of years ago.
He says, children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right.
He's quoting, and honor your father and mother,
And then in parentheses, this is the first commandment with a promise that it may go well with you and that you may live long in the land.
Isn't that interesting?
Of all the 10 commandments, kind of the greatest hits that we often think about, even if you're not a person of faith, think about it.
Do not murder, do not steal, do not commit adultery.
This is the only commandment that comes with a built-in, specific incentive for adhering to it.
Honor your father and mother that it may go well
with you.
God is saying that there is a unique spiritual weight, a connection to the favor of God in your life based on how we treat the generation that came before us.
It acts as a predictor for the trajectory of our lives.
But look, I know that the word of hope is one thing, but honor, that like feels way different.
For some it's easy like honoring the generation before honoring your parents is easy I've heard from some of you like your parents They're incredible.
They are worthy of honor.
They're your heroes.
That's amazing for others of us myself included.
That's painful You're thinking feel you don't know my dad.
You don't know my mom Does God really want me to honor dysfunction?
So let's clear let's be clear on what honor is and what it isn't and
Honor doesn't mean endorsing sin, it doesn't mean tolerating or obeying abuse.
The Hebrew word that we translate honor is actually the word habbat, and it means to be heavy, weighty, or important.
To honor someone is to give them weight in your life, substance.
It means that you treat the relationship with them with significance uniquely.
You don't treat them lightly or dismissively.
And last week, we talked about impairancing that oftentimes what gets us in trouble in spaces of parenting is that we parent in the wrong time zone.
That kids are at different ages and stages, but we don't always treat them like that.
Well, it turns out actually there are different stages of how you honor your parents and the generation that came before you as well.
And we're gonna look at those very quickly.
The first stage is obedience as a child, specifically to your parents.
If you're under 18 and you're living under your parents roof,
Honor looks like obedience.
It's a training ground for where you're going to honor the boundaries that they have set and be grateful for the provision that they have offered you.
Now, I know how challenging this season can be, especially now in our moment.
If you're a teenager, you probably feel like you are smarter than your parents at 12.
I have a 16-year-old.
He is for sure smarter than me.
You've been helping your parents navigate culture, communication, technology.
But here's the thing, do you don't have their wisdom yet?
They're applied truthful knowledge.
You don't have it, even if you think you do.
And the more you think you have it, the less you do.
And the more you need it.
When you obey, even when you disagree, you are building a spiritual muscle to acknowledge that you don't know everything and that you remain teachable.
You are reminding yourself that you are not the center of the universe.
And if that's new information for you, I'm so sorry to be the one to break that to you.
You need the same muscle, by the way, following God for the rest of your life.
Stage two is respect as a young adult.
When you leave the house, the dynamic changes.
You no longer are under their authority, but you are still called to honor them.
Honor evolves from obedience to respect.
It means that you don't badmouthed your parents or assume their generosity.
Young adults, let me say that again very quickly.
What it means to respect your parents as a young adult is it means that you don't badmouthed them with your friends and you don't just assume or feel entitled to their, notice who it is, their money.
It means that you proactively ask their counsel.
You thank them for it.
And even if you don't ultimately take their advice, you still acknowledge that they gave it to you with gratitude.
You acknowledge the sacrifices that they made to get you there.
Even if it's imperfect, I remember after we had our oldest child, I remember just after one night thinking to myself, my mom did this for me.
And I called my mom, I was like, this is really hard.
Thanks for doing this for me.
I didn't even know.
In the first century, as a matter of fact, they had a saying.
They would say, the construction of the young is destruction.
You don't even know what that phrase means and you already agree with it, right?
Meaning that if you try to build your life for a society without the blueprint and the wisdom of the generation before you, you aren't building, you're just making a very expensive pile of rubble.
We have the bricks, we have the information like we've never had before, but the generation before us will always carry the blueprint of wisdom that helps us stack them in the right direction.
See, this ultimately leads
to the third stage, which is compassion as an adult.
A few years ago, I very clearly stepped into the sandwich generation, where I was caring for young kids at home and caring for aging parents.
I was traveling to care for my mom every few weeks.
I was taking care of most of her health care and financial decisions day to day, even at a distance.
It was tiring, and honestly, it put a lot of pressure on our family and our church.
But there was a big difference between pitying my mom in that final season of her life.
and demonstrating compassion.
Pitying creates distance.
It looks at the decline of someone and says, man, that's sad, but it's not my problem.
What's the minimum that I can do to get away with it and be viewed as caring?
Pity assumes that because someone becomes outdated, they must become irrelevant.
But see, too often in our fast-paced culture, when someone loses their utility, they lose their community too.
It's not the way it's supposed to work.
Compassion gets closer in moments and seasons like that.
It remembers that the hands that are shaking now were once the hands that held you when you were helpless.
They were the hands you reached out for when you weren't sure to go, where to go, the hands that you held them for comfort, those same ones are the ones you see shaking now.
Compassion remembers that the voice that's quiet now is the same one that taught you to speak in the first place.
The same voice you could pick out of a crowd and return to for safety.
Compassion, it doesn't just see the struggle of today.
It sees the love of each day along the way.
And it remembers that that's who the person is.
This is at the heart of the book of Proverbs in the Hebrew Scriptures.
It focuses on wisdom.
And wisdom has always fought against cultural instincts to discard what is old.
One proverb reads this way, it says, listen to your father who gave you life and do not despise your mother when she is old.
The idea is that they are worthy of respect and more than that, care, real care and compassion.
Now we read a verse like that and the idea of despised, you know, I don't hate my parents, that's kind of strong, but in the Bible to despise, it didn't mean to hate.
It means to treat lightly.
It's the opposite of honor.
If honor is heavy and weighted, to despise your mother or father when they get old is to treat them as weightless, to treat them as irrelevant, which is oftentimes the greatest fear of the generation before us.
It's to treat her as a burden to be managed rather than a treasure to be cherished.
It's to assume that because she has lost her usefulness, she has lost her significance.
But the good news of Jesus, the gospel, calls us to see people the way that God sees them.
God does not value us for our utility.
He does not love us for our efficiency.
And when we offer compassion to the generation before us, we are reminding the world that human worth is not a fluctuating stock price.
It's the image of God in which you have been made.
So have boundaries, get help.
Don't try to do this alone.
Don't treat your parents like, oh man, I'm just this,
unlimited can do everything all the time person, but also don't treat your parents like garbage.
You throw away when you're done using them.
And look, I know that this is heavy.
I know that for some of you, the idea of honoring or showing compassion, it feels impossible because of how deep the wounds that you carry are.
And you might be thinking, Phil, you don't understand.
My parents, they never honored me.
They didn't protect me.
And now you want me to see them as a treasure to treat them with honor?
And this is where the rubber meets the road, I get it.
But if you'll go back and you'll look at that commandment, it doesn't say to honor them because they're worthy of honor.
Often times, I hope they are, but you honor them because of God.
You honor them because you're trusting God with the principle that he's placed in life.
And we do this with everybody.
We might be able to be an interaction with, show honor and dignity to connect with and learn from.
See, if we try to only
honor the people that are worth it, will miss out on a whole bunch of what God has for us.
On the flip side, if you try to honor people that you think don't deserve it or you try to honor people that feel really difficult and you do it out of your own strength because it's the right thing to do, you're going to burn out.
We have a term for it.
It's called compassion fatigue.
We will run out of compassion.
And so we need a power source greater than our own willpower.
We need a model.
And we've spent weeks in this series over and over again saying the same line, there are no perfect families, there are no perfect marriages, there are no perfect parents, but actually there is one perfect kid.
Have you ever thought about that?
Jesus, before his public ministry, for the first three decades of his life, we think of him as a savior, as a king, as a healer, but for the first three decades of his life, he was a son.
Not just to his eternal heavenly father,
but to his earthly parents.
He had a mom, Mary.
He had a dad, Joseph.
And even though he was God in the flesh, even though he created the very galaxies that his parents would look up and see at night, scripture tells us in Luke two that he was submissive to his earthly parents.
Can you imagine?
He honored them.
He listened to them.
Some of you, you're like, well, I don't listen to my parents, because I'm smarter than them.
I'm more capable than them.
Can you imagine if that logic was the one Jesus followed?
As a matter of fact, he, even on the cross, in his moment of greatest agony, he looked down, saw his mother, and made sure that she would be cared for by looking to John.
He honored her to his very last breath.
Jesus modeled the ultimate posture of a child, trust.
He trusted his earthly parents with his childhood, and he trusted his heavenly father with his life and his death.
In the Garden of Gethsemane on the night that he would be betrayed, the darkest night of his soul that he'd ever experienced in life, he didn't run, he didn't hide, he prayed, and he said to his father, Abba Father, Dad, if there's another way, if there's an option for us to redeem humans other than this one, can we do that one?
But then he finishes, but not my will.
yours, be done.
And because he did that, because he was the perfect kid, he made a way for you and me to be adopted into the family.
Which brings us to the reality that really we are all kids.
We're kids in God's house, whether you've accepted the offer of adoption or not.
But as I look around, honestly, as I think about my own heart, I see us trying to live out that identity in three very different ways as it connects and relates to God.
The first kind of kid that I think we can slip into is the Venmo kid.
Now it's important, like don't nudge your kids during this period of time.
This is about all of us, okay?
The Venmo kid has a transactional relationship with the father.
They want the blessing, they want relief, they want provision, they want the perks, but they don't really want the father.
We see this perfectly in the disciples, James and John.
They pulled Jesus to the side in Mark 10, and they're trying to kind of negotiate the ultimate upgrade to the kingdom seeding chart.
So they get Jesus, and if you can believe it, this is actually in the Bible.
They say, teacher, we want you to do for us whatever we ask of you.
And I'm sure Jesus is like, I think you misunderstand how this relationship works, right?
They're not asking for how to better serve.
They're actually asking how to better be served.
They're asking for the corner office in the kingdom.
They want one of them to sit on the right and one of them to sit on the left in these unique positions of influence and power in the kingdom of heaven.
This is the Venmo mindset.
It treats prayer like an invoice.
It says, God, I let my nets down for you.
I followed you.
I sent the payment.
Now, where is my product?
The Venmo kid works for God's stuff.
And if we're honest, we've all been there with our earthly parents probably and definitely with God.
The second type of kid is the report card kid.
This is the one that connects back to the toddler playing hide and seek.
The report card kid is obsessed with their spiritual report card.
They are constantly checking to see if they're making the right grade.
Did I volunteer enough?
Did I read my Bible enough?
Did I avoid enough sin?
The report card kid works for status.
They're terrified that if they get a C minus in morality, that God will revoke their acceptance letter to heaven.
So what do they do?
They hide.
They cover their eyes like the ostrich.
They hide the bad grades of their life.
They only show God the stuff that they feel like will impress them.
Now, they're exhausted because they're always performing.
They think that they're a candidate for a job, not a child in a home.
And this is a type of kid that when people like this show up this way to God, I'm a little scared for them because of the way they think about report card sounds very familiar to the way that Jesus talks about a future moment of judgment that he describes this way.
It says, on that day, many will say to me, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name and cast demons in your name and do so many mighty works
in your name, and then I, Jesus, declare to them, I never knew you.
Depart from me, you workers of lawlessness.
And look, I get it.
I know that for many of us, if we were honest today, we would probably identify with some version of a report card kid right now.
And I just want to name
the really exhausting way of living this way.
See, the big problem with a report card living is that a report card is only valid for a semester.
You can get straight A's for a season.
You can white knuckle your way with God for a season.
You can do every good deed and read your Bible every day.
You can feel so good and feel so safe as long as you're doing that.
But then the semester ends, the season changes and you slip.
You lose your temper.
You click on that website again and suddenly the report card drops to a D. And because your identity is tied to the grave, the entire sense of self and identity that you had, that you constructed by your own behavior, collapses.
And you will spend your whole life on that treadmill running just to stay in the same place.
Terrified that if you stop running, God will stop loving you.
It's a miserable way to live.
It's a form of spiritual slavery.
And Jesus, he didn't die to make you a slave.
He died to make you a son.
He died to make you a daughter.
He died to make you his child.
So you have the Venmo kid, you have the report card kid.
Jesus, he offers us a third way.
And that is the fridge art kid.
Bear with me.
If you have little kids, you kind of already know where I'm going.
Think about the art that's on your refrigerator at home.
If you have little kids, it's probably not professional.
It might be kind of messy.
It's usually drawn with a dull crayon or a fading marker.
Maybe it's on construction paper.
If the report card kids saw it, they would hide it because it isn't perfect.
But the fridge art kid, he runs into the kitchen and he holds it up and says, look dad, I made this for you.
And the father doesn't like get down and look at it and go, well, let's talk about your shading technique.
He grabs a magnet and he puts it in the highest place of honor
in the house.
Why?
Because the Venmo kid works for the wallet, the report card kid works for the status, but the fridge art kid, the fridge art kid can walk in security, can walk in safety.
They aren't trying to earn the father's love.
They know they already have it.
They create, they serve, they live their lives as a response to the love that they are increasingly aware of and that will never change.
The good news of Jesus, the gospel, it's foolishness to the Venmo kid.
because they can't buy it.
It's foolishness to the report card kid because they can't earn it.
But to the fridge art kid, it's the power of God.
Because healthy children receive their identity as a gift, not a great one they can't earn even if they tried.
And listen, I needed you to hear this.
Being a fridge art kid, it doesn't mean that you are perfect or that your drawing is always the prettiest, you know that.
My daughter Maisie, who's turning 14 today, happy birthday to Maisie.
Eight years ago, she was doing an art project with a friend, their same age, and she looked at her friend's project, which actually was really nice for the age that they were, and then she looked at her own, and it was kind of messy, and she looked up at me and said, Daddy, why does hers look so much better than mine, you know?
But the truth is, as great as her friend's art was, it was never up on our fridge.
Maisie's was.
Her friend's a great kid, but she's not my daughter.
That's the difference.
The fridge is not a fancy gallery for the talented.
It's a family gallery for the beloved.
But for some of you, it's even heavier than that.
Some of you, you're not holding messy art in front of God, you're holding broken pieces.
I remember a moment with one of my own kids years ago,
done something that they knew they weren't supposed to do.
They'd broken something valuable in the house.
They knew they weren't supposed to do it because we had repeatedly told them, please don't do that because you're going to break that thing.
And then they did the thing and then they broke the thing, right?
Now the human instinct in that moment is to hide as a kid.
And as a kid from a violent home, that's what I would have done.
That's what I did do.
But I'll never forget.
When this happened, my child didn't run away from me.
They ran to me.
They came into the room, tears were streaming down their face, and they just buried their face into my chest.
They didn't have a fix.
They didn't have an excuse.
They just had a broken mess.
And do you know what I did?
Well, I didn't check their report card.
I didn't send them a Venmo request for the damages.
I wrapped my arms around them, and I held them.
Because in that moment, I didn't care about what was broken.
I cared that my child felt broken.
That's the gospel.
Some of you, you're sitting here today holding the broken pieces of your life.
You have broken relationships with your parents.
You have broken pieces of your own integrity.
You are exhausted from trying to hide all of it, just like the report card kit.
You're exhausted from trying to pay for them like the Venmo kid.
And the father is saying, stop running away.
Stop hiding.
Just bring the pieces to me.
We're about to sing a song together you may be familiar with.
It's called Run to the Father.
And the lyrics of the song say, I run to the father.
I fall into grace.
I'm done with the hiding.
I'm done with the shame.
And that is your invitation today.
You don't have to be perfect.
You just have to be present.
Just show up.
Bring the mess.
You don't have to fix the drawing.
Just bring it into the kitchen.
Because healthy children, they receive their identity as a gift from a loving father, not as a great.
For some of you, you've been following Jesus a long time.
And this is an important and helpful reminder at the end of a series that hopefully God's gonna do something within your life.
Maybe he already is.
For some of you, you've never made a decision to follow Jesus.
You know that if that's the kind of love that's available, you don't have a category for that.
It's not what you experience, but if that's what's available, you want it.
So I just say, even as we sing this song, even over these next few minutes, for you to just pray a simple prayer in your heart to God that acknowledges God, I can't get back to you on my own.
I want to accept the gift that Jesus has made available to me.
I'm in whatever that means, whatever that looks like.
because this really is the love that's available.
We are all God's children in that we are created in His image with infinite dignity, value, and worth.
But to be in His family, you've got to be adopted.
The invitation papers are in front of you.
The payment has been made.
And He's just waiting for you to run to Him.
Would you pray with me?
God, for each and every one of us today, we have our own story of what it's meant to be a child, to grow up in the kind of home that we've grown up in, to have the parent figures that we had, to have the relatives around us and the community that surrounds us.
And right now, God, I pray that for those that those things are helpful connectors that you would use them to connect to the kind of love that you have for us.
And for those of us, God, that those were really painful and really difficult.
Honestly, I remember thinking to myself, I learned about you, I got one dad, I don't want, I'm not sure I need a second one.
And so father, I pray that your love, your love that's greater than any earthly love would be what we feel now.
And that this call to run to you would be one that we embrace to the deepest parts of who we are.
For those of us that are doing it for the first time in a long time, we've been away, meet us there.
And for those who have never done it, God, would you just give them that simple prayer in their heart to come to you right now in Jesus' name?
Amen.